                               Assignment-3


1)Azure Cosmos DB is a fully managed NoSQL and relational database for modern app development including AI, e-commerce, Internet of Things and other types of soluAzure Cosmos DB offers single-digit millisecond response times, automatic and instant scalability, along with guaranteed speed at any scale.
The features of CosmosDB are (1) Trunkey global distribution
                             (2)Elastic scale of storage & throughput
                             (3)Guarenteed low Latency at the 99th percentile
                             (4)Firewall defined consistency models.

2)Azure blob storage is useful for
(1) Storing files for distributed access.
(2)Serving images & documents directly to the browser.
(3)Streaming vedios&Audios.


3)There are 3 types of data partitioning.
#Horizontal Partitioning
 In this data is divided into shards. Each Shord holds the contigeous range of Shord keys i.e., A-G and H-Z organised alphabetically.
 #Vertical Partitioning
 In this fields are divided into their use. High frequently accesed fields placed in one vertical partition and less frequently used fields are placed in onother vertical partition.
 #Functional Partitioning
The data is aggregated according to how it is used by each bounded context in the system. ex. in e-commerce invoice data can be stored in one partition and product data can be stored in another partition.

4)consistency leviels in Azure Cosmos DB are 
Eventual: Here the data is written on the primary node and is propagated eventually to read-only secondary nodes. It might take some time for the users to get updated data.
Consistent Prefix: Clients can read data in the same order as it is written. 
Session: Users who just committed the data will be able to see it but it will take some time for the others to get that data version. 
Bounded Staleness: Here a staleness period can be set, for which the data won’t be replicated into the secondary nodes.
Strong: This offers the latest copy of data for all the users but gives a relatively low performance. 












